readme.md, before:


# HLS stream from http stream

Stream a camera and its sliding window history via HLS, optimized for <10 seconds latency.

Change how much footage youd like to save. Change the size of video chunks used.

&nbsp;

## Dependencies

This code uses the following libraries:
- `ffmpeg`: for handling the live stream to video chunking HLS protocol
- `docker`: for serving the generated files and hosting the html viewer with nginx
- `hls.js`: for serving the index.m3u8 file using html 5
```bash
npm install hls.js
```

&nbsp;

## Usage
1. Run your http live camera feed, and get its url
    If you need code to host a http live camera feed look [here](https://github.com/BrianLesko/http-camera-server-python)
2. replace the URL in start.sh with your live camera url
3. run the ffmpeg command in start.sh
4. run the nginx server with the commands in start_docker.sh
5. view the web stream at http://localhost:8080

&nbsp;

## About

HLS streaming was introduced by Apple and since its creation has been one of the most popular ways to stream video. It allows adaptive quality and low latency. The setup here is more cumbersome than a simple http live server, but allows viewing the history of the stream and allows the client to buffer content. Written by Brian Lesko for learning purposes. For other software projects related to robotics engineering, mechanical engineering, and software engineering see my other repositories. 

&nbsp;

<hr>

&nbsp;

<div align="center">



╭━━╮╭━━━┳━━┳━━━┳━╮╱╭╮        ╭╮╱╱╭━━━┳━━━┳╮╭━┳━━━╮
┃╭╮┃┃╭━╮┣┫┣┫╭━╮┃┃╰╮┃┃        ┃┃╱╱┃╭━━┫╭━╮┃┃┃╭┫╭━╮┃
┃╰╯╰┫╰━╯┃┃┃┃┃╱┃┃╭╮╰╯┃        ┃┃╱╱┃╰━━┫╰━━┫╰╯╯┃┃╱┃┃
┃╭━╮┃╭╮╭╯┃┃┃╰━╯┃┃╰╮┃┃        ┃┃╱╭┫╭━━┻━━╮┃╭╮┃┃┃╱┃┃
┃╰━╯┃┃┃╰┳┫┣┫╭━╮┃┃╱┃┃┃        ┃╰━╯┃╰━━┫╰━╯┃┃┃╰┫╰━╯┃
╰━━━┻╯╰━┻━━┻╯╱╰┻╯╱╰━╯        ╰━━━┻━━━┻━━━┻╯╰━┻━━━╯
  


&nbsp;


<a href="https://twitter.com/BrianJosephLeko"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BrianLesko/BrianLesko/f7be693250033b9d28c2224c9c1042bb6859bfe9/.socials/svg-white/x-logo-white.svg" width="30" alt="X Logo"></a> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <a href="https://github.com/BrianLesko"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BrianLesko/BrianLesko/f7be693250033b9d28c2224c9c1042bb6859bfe9/.socials/svg-white/github-mark-white.svg" width="30" alt="GitHub"></a> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/brianlesko/"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BrianLesko/BrianLesko/f7be693250033b9d28c2224c9c1042bb6859bfe9/.socials/svg-white/linkedin-icon-white.svg" width="30" alt="LinkedIn"></a>

follow all of these for pizza :)

</div>


&nbsp;

Commit message:

works on mac and linux
Works on mac and linux now, can run locally, or serve video to the network. Pick the ports easy. Start with only one command

readme.md, after:


# HLS stream from http stream

Stream a camera and its sliding window history via HLS, optimized for <10 seconds latency.

Change how much footage youd like to save. Change the size of video chunks used.

&nbsp;

## Dependencies

This code uses the following libraries:
- `ffmpeg`: for handling the live stream to video chunking HLS protocol
- `docker`: for serving the generated files and hosting the html viewer with nginx
- `hls.js`: for serving the index.m3u8 file using html 5
```bash
npm install hls.js
```

&nbsp;

## Setup
1. create a python virtual environment using venv, activate it, make sure the python requirements are downloaded
```
python3 -m venv my_env
source my_env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. install the javascript dependency with 
```
npm install
```

## Usage
1. Pick the scope of where you'll serve the video.

a. local network. You want your video accessible my the local area network (wifi or wired).
set the IP in start.sh to 0.0.0.0

b. local only, on your device
set the IP in start.sh to 127.0.0.1

2. run start.sh
```
./start.sh
```

&nbsp;

## About

HLS streaming was introduced by Apple and since its creation has been one of the most popular ways to stream video. It allows adaptive quality and low latency. The setup here is more cumbersome than a simple http live server, but allows viewing the history of the stream and allows the client to buffer content. Written by Brian Lesko for learning purposes. For other software projects related to robotics engineering, mechanical engineering, and software engineering see my other repositories. 

&nbsp;

<hr>

&nbsp;

<div align="center">



╭━━╮╭━━━┳━━┳━━━┳━╮╱╭╮        ╭╮╱╱╭━━━┳━━━┳╮╭━┳━━━╮
┃╭╮┃┃╭━╮┣┫┣┫╭━╮┃┃╰╮┃┃        ┃┃╱╱┃╭━━┫╭━╮┃┃┃╭┫╭━╮┃
┃╰╯╰┫╰━╯┃┃┃┃┃╱┃┃╭╮╰╯┃        ┃┃╱╱┃╰━━┫╰━━┫╰╯╯┃┃╱┃┃
┃╭━╮┃╭╮╭╯┃┃┃╰━╯┃┃╰╮┃┃        ┃┃╱╭┫╭━━┻━━╮┃╭╮┃┃┃╱┃┃
┃╰━╯┃┃┃╰┳┫┣┫╭━╮┃┃╱┃┃┃        ┃╰━╯┃╰━━┫╰━╯┃┃┃╰┫╰━╯┃
╰━━━┻╯╰━┻━━┻╯╱╰┻╯╱╰━╯        ╰━━━┻━━━┻━━━┻╯╰━┻━━━╯
  


&nbsp;


<a href="https://twitter.com/BrianJosephLeko"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BrianLesko/BrianLesko/f7be693250033b9d28c2224c9c1042bb6859bfe9/.socials/svg-white/x-logo-white.svg" width="30" alt="X Logo"></a> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <a href="https://github.com/BrianLesko"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BrianLesko/BrianLesko/f7be693250033b9d28c2224c9c1042bb6859bfe9/.socials/svg-white/github-mark-white.svg" width="30" alt="GitHub"></a> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/brianlesko/"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BrianLesko/BrianLesko/f7be693250033b9d28c2224c9c1042bb6859bfe9/.socials/svg-white/linkedin-icon-white.svg" width="30" alt="LinkedIn"></a>

follow all of these for pizza :)

</div>


&nbsp;
